Sorry Chris, are you about to start?
Yeah I am, but I'm, uh, what, what?
Time maths, time maths.
Yeah, I know, right?
I know, yeah I know.
Yeah, so there's me thinking I'm like half an hour early and actually I'm like three
minutes late.
That's why I'm just kind of farting around, I hate it, and you just missed my daylight
savings rant, but short version is, I'm willing to make a pack with you guys, Matt, Wimpy,
you guys, everybody in the chat room, everybody in the mumble room, I will make a pack starting
right here.
If you want, and you know, they've got a couple of weeks until they catch up to us, Matt,
but when we all spring ahead, when everybody's all sprung ahead, I'm gonna make a pack with
you guys, you guys make a pack with me, we will not fall behind.
We will refuse to do it, and listen, if we refuse to do it, then it, that's what time
it is.
Like if I say it's six o'clock and we all agree it's six o'clock, then it's fucking
six o'clock.
That's how it works.
You're gonna go all Arizona on the time savings, aren't you?
We're just gonna draw the line, and we're just gonna say from now on, we're done.
It's a pack, it's a time pack.
We're gonna make a time pack, and you know what, don't feel silly, because history will
look back at us as the people that saved society from a shared delusion.
We will be the saviors of this shared delusion that is daylight savings time.
We will be revolutionaries, and I will start it, it'll start with Jupiter Broadcasting,
and it will go out from there, and we can all be part of it.
It'll become known as JB time.
And you know what, I'll make the economic case, because it devastates our live shows
for like two weeks.
People get it all confused, and it's not even people outside the US.
People inside the effing United States of America get it confused.
The Americans can't even keep it straight.
How do we expect people outside the US to keep it straight?
And I'm starting to think that the only reason George W. Bush changed it by two weeks is
just to make America different from everybody else, so the rest of the world would have
to take notice of us.
I'm starting to think that's the only reason he did it, and I'm so sick of it, I am so
sick of it.
The original reason is so dated to it, it's like what, farmers 50 years ago or some shit,
so they get more time to farm shit?
I don't know.
That's part of it.
Yeah, no, I agree.
But okay, I agree with the whole daylight savings time, two weeks difference is incredibly
stupid.
Yeah.
It should all be the same across the world, why is it different?
Like why is the day changing?
Like that's dumb.
But the whole hour back and forth, who really cares?
But the two week difference between every other country?
That's ridiculous.
I know.
Just to complete the circle of international ridiculousness, I'd like to point out that
the UK is offset by one week from continental Europe as well.
Oh.
Oh, wow.
Ouch.
A week would hurt.
That would hurt.
No, I think we have to blame some monarch from donkey's years ago for that one.
It's all pretty archaic, right?
It's ridiculous.
And the confusing thing for me is that my office is, our sister office is in Arizona,
in Phoenix, Arizona, and they don't have daylight savings at all.
Right.
In Arizona.
Fun.
No, actually, Wimpy, I would state it like this, they do not share the delusion that
the rest of us share.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I like that.
Yeah.
You know, all right.
Okay.
I mean, here's what I'm saying.
The same people that believe that a laptop with one port are the same people that believe
in daylight savings.
So you got to make a decision.
What kind of person are you?
Do you think a laptop should have more than one port or do you believe in daylight?
I'm just asking.
What kind of person are you?
I want a laptop with one port that also charges itself.
That's what I want.
What could go wrong?
Yeah.
And I want to make sure it's a technology that I couldn't possibly already have so I
can invest another 60 or 80 bucks into it.
Can I introduce you into the concept of a single point of failure, please?
Can I?
I would like to.
One port goes out and nothing on your laptop works ever again.
Right?
Yeah.
But if you're going to talk about daylight savings, there is at least two ports.
There is a-
There is a fallback and spring forward port.
There is actually a headphone jack that also is a microphone jack in one port, of course,
because-
That's enough.
I'm kind of-
I'm kind of sorry that I've stirred up all of these feelings again, but also delighted
at the same time.
He would have felt very disappointed if he had missed the round completely.
Yeah, no.
I feel included now.
No, I just think that we can make a difference.
That's all.
And I'm willing to do it.
I just want to make sure I got everybody's best support because we got it.
Just for a while.
I don't care.
Just remind me.
I will definitely support that initiative.
There's one other thing, Chris.
I don't know if you want to discuss this now or after the show, but last week, you and
I talked about BT SYNC, and when I listened back to it, it sounded like we were two people
that weren't prepared to pay for good software because, certainly from my point of view,
I hadn't explained why it was I didn't want to pay for BT SYNC in its future iterations,
and I don't want that to come across as somebody that's not prepared to pay for software.
I want to explain why it is BT SYNC has changed, and we shouldn't be supporting it.
I completely agree because I think, and I'm sure you know this, Wimby, but you know me.
I'm totally willing to pay for software.
In fact, I spend thousands of dollars a year on software for what we do.
In fact, I did say I'd be willing to pay for it, but I wouldn't want to make everybody
else have to subscribe to use it, so I think it's a point well made, so go ahead.
I think clarification is well-made.
I'll explain.
So, prior to using BT SYNC, I'd been a Dropbox subscriber for some years, and I'd been paying
my $100, and I was perfectly happy with paying for my Dropbox subscription, so I'm not adverse
to paying for software that I find useful, but in the light of the Edward Snowden revelations
and then more so the crappity security at Dropbox, I decided Dropbox isn't somewhere
that I wanted sensitive information, so I looked to move my data out of the centralized
cloud storage platforms into something that I controlled, and albeit BT SYNC being proprietary,
it offered me this peer-to-peer synchronization facility, safeguarded from central organization.
And also, the torrent system is actually pretty great at distributing a lot of types of files
like this, so it also has the advantage of being a very good way to distribute media
files and things like that.
Yeah, and it worked for me, but here's the thing.
It's not the cost.
The cost is just one aspect, but it's a very small part.
For them to enforce you paying for this, so first of all, in their press release, they
know how much data has passed through the BT SYNC network in the last 18 months.
That's not the first time they've quoted that number either, and I've always wondered how
can they know that?
Exactly.
How do they know how much data has passed through their network?
More worrying is you now need to subscribe per user.
Now per user subscription, that means there must be some central authority that you're
logging in with, and therefore, where is your data going and how are they coalescing this?
More worrying still is you're limited to 10 folders, so again, there must be some central
place that knows what all of your folder shares are in order to determine whether or not you
are under or over their threshold.
It could be possible.
What do you think about the possibility that the local server does a check and says, am
I authorized, yes or no, and do I have more than 10 folders, yes or no?
And it could just be as simple as if yes, I have more than 10 folders and am authorized
as no than don't function.
It was that simple, wouldn't they just tell you that?
And that's a perfectly great piece of pseudocode analysis, but it's proprietary software and
we just don't know.
We just don't know, do we?
We don't know how they're doing it, do we?
Yeah, exactly.
So in the light of not knowing how they're enforcing the user accounts and the folder
limitations, I'm now looking at the data that I've got stored in there, which includes baby
photographs and photographs of all of the children in the family, and as a father, you
will know that children under the age of four take off all their clothes all the time, and
therefore you take photographs of naked children and now who's analyzing the flesh tone coverage
analysis in your photographs and all the rest of it, so consequently, it doesn't fly for
me anymore.
I need to find something that I know is open source because I can check it and I know it's
not going through some third party orchestration server.
I've always suspected that the BitTorrent Sync isn't doing any kind of data analysis
because it would be pretty overt if a copy of your data was going to them, but I have
suspected for a while, based on other observations, that they are doing some sort of metadata
analysis.
Well, we're all pretty familiar that metadata is pretty damn important too, and that doesn't
make me super comfortable, but it's not a deal breaker because, let's be honest, it's
probably less than, say, what Dropbox or what Google Drive, for God's sakes, or even Microsoft's
OneDrive is doing.
BitTorrent Sync is probably still the lesser of the evil of all of those things, or so
I would tell myself.
What really burned my ass, and I am so tired of this because, honestly, I've been watching
this kind of BS for a really long time, and Google is a master of it, but they do it in
a more subtle way, but what really burned me was sort of when they stuck their tongue
in my ear about open sourcing it a little bit, and they went, hmm, yeah, I might do
that.
I might open source this.
Little tease.
Yeah, exactly.
And then just walked away.
All right, yeah, well, hey, you got more than ten folders, sorry about that.
And then, oh, the open source thing, yeah, we've totally dropped that.
And that, I'm so sick of that.
I'm so sick and tired of that bait and switch.
That's the part that upset me.
Forty dollars, that's pretty reasonable because I've subscribed to Dropbox Pro because we
also use that for media files.
So forty dollars is pretty reasonable, but I can't expect every unfiltered supporter
to also pay that.
So I have to think this through.
Yeah, I agree.
I think the bait and switch thing is a very good point, but my concerns are more around
how do they know?
How are they monitoring?
How are they tracking this?
And therefore, now it's definitely not going to be open source.
How can we trust it?
Yeah, and for everybody listening that's been all along, I told you you shouldn't use it
if it's not open source.
Well, you were right.
Well, and see, for me, I utilize technologies that aren't open source and that potentially
I'm pumping data through.
Generally speaking, I will only pump stuff out that I want people listening or viewing.
So podcasts, hey, you know what?
If the NSA wants to listen to my show, that's frigging awesome.
You guys are bored.
Yeah, they're listening.
Yeah.
Just go use their sponsors.
They're watching Matrix screens and stuff.
Yeah, good.
Exactly.
So that's cool.
But outside of that, anything personal, some stuff I won't even put on a computer.
I mean, like just point blank.
I won't.
Wow.
Hey, Matt.
Hey.
And you know what?
On that note.
You know what?
I'll just get sexy shots.
I don't want to put that out there.
I don't want to hear about that.
We're going to start the show.
It's time to kick off.
Welcome to Linux Unplugged, your weekly Linux talk show that's just sitting around and waiting
for the damn internet of hat things.
My name is Chris.
And my name is Matt.
I'm telling you, Matt, screw the watches, screw the phones.
I want my hat internet connected.
Think about all of that space you could use for battery.
The rim could be used for sensors.
You could have easily a couple of cameras.
Dude, some hats could have a 360 degree camera assembly, right?
You see-
Where are you going with that?
Can we get off Google Glass?
Can we get off the watching?
Can we please folks?
Not only that, who doesn't look good in a hat?
Everybody looks good in a hat.
Ladies look good in a hat.
Guys look good.
Hold on.
I'm going to grab a hat.
Hold on, Matt.
You know what?
You're going to do a hat thing.
I'm going to grab a hat for the rest of the episode.
I'm going to wear a hat.
There you go.
Guess what?
I'm doing Unplugged in a hat, Matt.
We're going to go in the future.
This is my internet hat of things.
And on this episode, I'm going to just have Google Docs sort of projected into my eyes
because my hat of internet of things has snap down glasses because why not?
Because it's got battery capacity for that.
And I'll tell you what we're going to talk about.
There's an upcoming distribution that promises to make it easy to game on Linux.
And then it's from folks you may have heard of before.
We're going to talk about that.
Also, it's not Wayland.
It's not Mir.
No, ladies and gentlemen, a brand, brand new way to do graphics on the Linux desktop coming
to you by Google.
Yeah, we're going to talk about Freon a little bit in this episode.
Yeah, I know.
What, did you say it was called Leon?
No, Freon.
Yeah.
Oh, see, I would have gone with Leon because then it's more recognizable.
Hey, you know.
Oh, yeah, man, I'm running Leon.
You know how we have this open source thing called Wayland?
That's a protocol that you could just kind of use.
Well, let's just say if it's not invented here, you're never going to use it.
And then we'll move forward from there.
We're going to talk about Freon that's coming up later in the show today.
We actually have, I'm really excited about today's Unplugged.
It's a good smattering of topics.
And one thing I want to get into with the mumble room is if anybody thinks this new
Linux code of conduct, or I'm sorry, conflict resolution code that was merged into the Linux
kernel during the Linux action show this Sunday, I guess Linus is probably just doing that
while he's watching the show.
If we actually think it's going to help how the Linux kernel developers interact with
each other and if they need to change it.
So that'll be coming up in the show as well, Matt.
But you know, I've been trying something kind of new in the Unplugged show.
There is a, you know, Matt, you got to mind the gap and between a Linux action show and
Linux Unplugged, new stories develop and they change.
And there is, there is a gap that oftentimes a couple of stories get dropped that just
don't make it into any one of the shows.
And so I've been trying to pick those things up and bring them to the forefront.
Now one, I think we're going to talk about more later on Sunday is Ozone OS.
I think that's how you say it or Ozon, Ozone, right?
It's from the folks behind the Numix project and of course the Nitrix project designed
to get you into a simple, sleek and modern desktop and get stuff done quickly.
It is, if the Numix guys could make a desktop, well guess what?
They have and this is what it would look like.
Remember Matt, they teased it on our interview with them during the Linux action show that
they're going to be working on it.
Yeah.
Well here it is.
The latest OS release is called Hydrogen.
It's based on Fedora 21.
It uses Gnome Shell 3.14, customized with their own extensions to make it a unique experience.
It ships with a gorgeous GTK theme, shell icons, the whole thing.
So you got the GTK theme, you have a shell theme and an icon theme to make the whole
thing freaking gorgeous.
They have the dock down on the bottom and oh, oh they have a YouTube video and you know
what that means.
Chris got to play that YouTube video.
Let's see what we can.
Hey Matt, when there's YouTube, I got to play it.
Oh yeah, we got some music.
Atom Desktop, a simple, fast app storage by usage so your more frequent apps come up to
the front.
It comes with Chrome.
They're using obviously a very nice theme so files looks like a very nice file manager.
The icons are gorgeous, I'm not going to lie.
It's very white.
Oh, it looks like they have a software center in here Matt.
Oh yeah.
Oh wow, there's slight transparency in the menu so like you know they have the client
side decorations but there's a slight transparency in them.
The icons are just gorgeous.
Yeah, wow.
You know this might be the kind of, this is a fedora I could use.
Yeah oh yeah, no it definitely looks great.
Oh my gosh, so the Google Play, oh okay, alright so I think, yeah I'm going to give this a
download and give it a try.
I mean from a visual like just first impressions point of view, it's really, really cool.
I am impressed by it.
No, I really am impressed by this.
I think this looks really good.
I am really impressed that they, so here's the thing is what I was worried about when
they first talked about it although they kind of corrected it pretty soon is I was worried
they're going to go off and do something on their own and you and I have sort of lamented
during our fedora reviews like why is nobody building an amazing distribution based off
fedora?
Like you have a million distributions based off of Ubuntu and Debian and nothing based
off fedora or openSUSE of Merit.
I mean there are some now like Korora which is great but Korora is essentially fedora.
This is, this is true.
This is not quite as hard core but this is nearly elementary OS meets fedora.
It's not as hard core as that but it's close to that.
That to me is a very compelling use of fedora as a very good base, technologically it has
a lot of good features, it's pretty cutting edge but it's got a lot of rough edges.
You throw this on top of it and you make it ready to play Steam games, I think it's kind
of.
So here's the thing, okay, here's what, haven't you, whenever you get asked, hey I would like
to try out Linux and I want to be able to play some games, your default answer always
is okay we should probably try out Ubuntu and in the back of your mind you're going
gosh but I don't know like you know they're about to switch up the Unity desktop environment
to this whole new thing and the next update could be really weird and I'm not sure if
I'm putting you on a path that you're not going to be entirely happy with and there's
these other distros that spin off of Ubuntu called Ubuntu Mate but they're still kind
of you know attached at the hip to this main distribution that I'm not so sure where this
is going and there's this other distribution called Fedora that's connected to this Red
Hat company that I'm pretty sure is a good long-term bet and I would really like to be
able to recommend this to you but I for God's sakes can't give you to just go try out Fedora,
that would be horrible for a brand new user but something that takes Fedora and makes
it presentable and user-friendly but lets you use a distribution that is based off something
from Red Hat that's something I would have a little more confidence in recommending to
a new user once it has some more development time.
I would agree with that and one thing I need to refresh on is I need to re-examine where
we're at as far as package availability for a lot of the specialty proprietary apps that
I use most most distinctly see where that's at and how easy it is to get to but if it
from what I'm seeing though it kind of looks like it's all just right there in a software
center like environment.
It looks like the nicest Fedora I've ever seen.
I think it might be something I'm going to have to download it that's just what it is
I mean there's just no way around it.
Alright Rotten Corpse what do you think?
Well it's actually really nice looking and I'm a GNOME fan and I like how they're using
extensions to expand on GNOME rather than trying to fork it or something.
The only problems that they've done a few things tweaks that are kind of odd like for
example when you open up the application launcher there's no categories there's no folders it's
just you have frequency of use of applications and that's it.
You don't have any choices.
And then you have to search for anything else?
Yeah you have to search for everything and the pop like if you look at the screenshot
it just shows like the most the most frequently used and it has really no order whatsoever.
It could be a 1.0 or it's as a beta I mean that could be something they add but yeah
that is a little that's a little odd I'll grant you that.
I could see though how for a lot of users that would be kind of nice but if it's not
pre-populated with some basics that could be very confusing too.
It's a pretty cool distro it looks pretty awesome I like how they're replacing Shotwell
with G-Thumb because they're actually you know being up to date now whereas Shotwell
is pretty slow and updating.
The only thing I only application they chose that's kind of weird is the tomahawk selection
because tomahawks cool in theory they have like a lot of broken stuff and I've actually
kind of like talked with the tomahawk people and they are working on a lot of different
things that eventually it will be awesome right now it's still in like you know beta
stage.
What do you think about this what do you think about calling it the Adam desktop instead
of calling it like Gnome Plus or something is that is it is that taking it well I guess
if this is early days maybe they have intentions to go further perhaps that's what they're
implying.
Well I think they're they're calling the Adam desktop because all of their they're calling
every single extension they make Adam something so maybe they just think that it's the Adam
desktop is Gnome Plus all the Adam add-ons.
It's interesting they do things like top icons by default I think it's a pretty smart bet
doing the extension route because if you look at the trajectory of Gnome right now for example
Gnome 3.16 is looking really really good and so for them it's going to be minimal effort
to take these modifications theoretically and move them to Gnome 3.16 because it's their
extensions works it's not it's not as dramatic of a it's not quote unquote a fork for example.
Even their extensions are not very extensive like they're they're extensive in the sense
of like what they're offering but they're not like so you know catastrophically different
that if when when 3.16 comes out then automatically they're broken you can't use them anymore
you have to rebuild everything they're they're changing things like they're instead of using
the dock inside the overview they're making a dock like a genuine dock at the bottom and
things like that it's it seems more like it's Gnome with extra polish.
So they are using the the software center the Gnome software center as their software
center but it says here they're doing things like they're including repos for things like
making it easy to install codecs in various software inside the software center so again
making Fedora a little more approachable.
I'm gonna I'm gonna have to download this and give and kick the tires because I have
felt I have felt basically for the last two releases but really with the last release
of Fedora that it is such a it's such a great base distribution but the project itself probably
because of its affiliation with Red Hat just they can't seal the deal to make it really
approachable for users that are not free software crusaders, right?
Yes, I agree.
I think the fact that they're adding their RPM fusion includes that it's gonna solve
some of the proprietary issues too.
So why don't you like Tomahawk?
Spotify and things.
Oh, Tomahawk is awesome Tomahawk is a really cool concept but for example Google Play support
like in their video they mentioned that you can use Google Music yeah you can it's just
it's not integrated with any other service so you're either using your local stuff or
you're using your Google Play Music and that's it.
You can't switch between the two and you can't do shuffling between the two but it also has
like Spotify so right now I've pretty much only been using Spotify for the last couple
of weeks and all but also has things like own cloud support and I have a lot of music
up on my own cloud server and it's they're all separated right but if you could that's
the only reason I don't like it if you can pick if you can pick just one you get a native
desktop application that allows you to have access to these cloud music services.
Well there's also something like Clementine that does the same thing.
Yeah Clementine would have been a good choice too yeah yeah.
Well I like Tomahawk and it's got a lot of potential and I've talked to the people who
are developing it and they said they are working on integration for all of the different cloud
music plus local and like currently certain there's like weird views so like for example
you can't you can't shuffle through Google Play Music stuff you can only play in like
select and create your own playlist you can't actually do any kind of shuffle mode and that's
and that's pretty weird but the like you can't like currently you can't even do a list view
like you can just see just album covers you can't even say here just give me a list of
all the stuff in my cloud you know my music Google Music account you can't even do that.
So it's kind of like it's got a lot of potential and I am looking forward to it being more
like a 1.0.
I love the idea I love the idea because once it becomes a native GTK or whatever Linux
application you know then things like my keyboard controls work a lot better and all kinds I
love the idea of taking some of these cloud quote unquote services just using the word
like it actually is a real word now and and and and then you know integrating with a local
desktop something else real quick before we before we stop talking about ozone also steam
pre-installed chromium default browser I mean this is this is my fedora if I spent two days
I was gonna say three but one to two days setting it up RPM fusion repos I mean this
is my fedora so yeah I just and it's fun because they teased it on our show it was the first
place they ever mentioned it and now we get to see it here so I'll have links in the show
notes if you guys want to go check it out probably talk a little bit more about it so
of course it's but what what no no three dot eighteen dot eight kernels that way your chrome
works just fine heyo anyways and also a link to a web update article where they did a good
post on it I was gonna ask I was hoping poppy would stop by but I don't anybody running
the anybody in the mumbler running the 1504 betas once wimpy you are oh yeah of course
you are yes of course yes of course you are of course so I guess you've probably then
you've made the switch over to system D any thing to report not a lot I've not had any
difficulties myself the only thing that I've noticed is that if you've previously installed
and gone for full disk encryption then system D is slow to boot and that's because there's
a 90 second timeout whilst it tries and fails to do cryptid swap and they're working on
fixing that so that's the only like major in air quotes issue I've seen with it but
by and large it's been a seamless transition poppy did post on Google Plus that after his
work day he did the update upstart was removed system D was added and all worked fine with
no drama except for the historical drama attached with the entire system D tobacco yeah let's
not get into that no no we shouldn't all right well before we continue on I want to take
a minute right now and talk about our first sponsor and that's Linux Academy go over to
linuxacademy.com slash unplugged to get our special Linux unplugged discount which is
unique to the Linux unplugged show I don't want to brag but Linux Academy I want to reach
out specifically to the Linux audience to give you guys a special discount and Linux
Academy is an awesome resource for you to take your knowledge set to the next level
it's created by people that are truly passionate about Linux about teaching people about all
of the categories that they cover and that's why they're not a generic training site they
are dedicated to this and now they've been a sponsor for a little while I've had the
opportunity to hear some really nice success stories and that is pretty amazing when you
think about what success means right success when you go to Linux Academy means you've
been able to pass a certification or you're able to get that job that you couldn't get
before or maybe you did a little better on the review like that's the kind of success
that has an impact on your life like nothing else and that's what's really unique about
Linux Academy they have step-by-step video courses they have comprehensive study guides
you can download and keep them viewer Seth he likes to listen to some of the mp3 content
in the shower they also have live streams where you can ask the educator questions they
have scenario based training and what's super sweet about this is this is going to give
you a hands-on experience with the technology so by the time you're done with that lab you've
actually implemented the technology you'd be working within production so when you go
work with it in production it's not the first time you've ever touched that it's not the
first time you've ever done that it's not the first time you've ever read that config
file how embarrassing is that right no the scenario based training you actually go implement
that technology and from and and for me because Amazon Web Services was an entirely new beast
that was of its own and total creation unlike anything else I was a little intimidated by
that the fact that I could go over to Linux Academy and wrap my brain around using s3
and using the AWS mailing services and using their DNS and really kind of wrap my brain
on how all of those things can work together so that way when I go to talk about it it's
not the first time I've ever seen it that was that was critical for me go to linuxacademy.com
slash unplugged get our 33% discount and get started I have a great success story right
here thank you Linux Academy by Mike Kay I just landed the job of my dreams at a hosting
company as a Linux administrator I can't thank you guys enough also I want to give a shout
out to the guys over Jupiter broadcasting if it wasn't for the Linux action show and
Linux unplugged I never would have known about Linux Academy that's pretty cool linuxacademy.com
slash unplugged yeah Matt I mean that's that's seriously the coolest thing ever that's amazing
yep go check it out it's really a great resource I'm using it now my wife Angela is using it
as well Michael Domino from Koda radio he has the team pass that way his team can use
it linuxacademy.com slash unplugged okay so I got a few things I want to talk to you guys
about you guys this would have been a great topic for tech snap but we pre-recorded this
week and so I thought well since it's Linux related I'm gonna be a little selfish I'll
go ahead and grab it for the Linux unplugged show you guys may be familiar about project
zero we've talked about it on the tech snap show before it's this initiative by Google
to try to crack well in the most case open source projects but it's not because they
hate open source it's because they want to try to find the bad stuff before like state
actors or malware authors do and so it turns out they've been able to do a pretty devastating
attack against Linux you're not gonna believe how they did it and especially you laptop
users are susceptible to it if you're on a desktop you're not as susceptible to this
attack get this the technique dubbed as a row hammer rapidly writes and rewrites to
memory to force capacitor errors in DRAM which can be exploited to gain control of the system
by repeatedly recharging one line of RAM cells bits in an adjacent line can be altered thus
corrupting the data stored the corruption could lead to the wrong instructions being
executed or control structures that govern how memory is assigned a program being altered
the latter case can be used by a normal program to gain kernel level privileges the project
zero team has now built two working exploits that successfully hijacked control of many
x86 computing systems running Linux as they say they could do the same with other operating
systems as well but they're kind of focused on trying to find flaws in open source software
to make open source more secure the proof of concept exploit code flips bits in RAM
to alter the page tables for a process allowing an attacker to gain access to all physical
RAM including the kernels memory space from this point memory protection mechanisms and
other security measures can be completely bypassed and structures within the operating
system tampered with within to take over the machine now here's this how great is this
the team tested the exploit on 29 x86 based laptops built between 2010 2014 using ddr3
ram in 15 cases the team could successfully subvert the systems within minutes and found
the DRAM made by a variety of manufacturers is susceptible to the attack here's the interesting
part though while there was a high cracking rate the team reported almost no success on
desktop machines this is possibly because those computers news use newer RAM maybe some
of those computers were using ECC RAM with error correcting of course which makes row
hammer attacks on the kernel much harder to accomplish or maybe that laptops are just
denser and lower power so they're easier to corrupt and then this article goes on to talk
about a bunch of other really interesting things but they say the Google team also said
newer firmware versions like just to the bios the change of the CPU and the memories controller
like just talk like how fast they refresh the RAM reduce the effectiveness of this of
row hammer attack to not completely though just kind of in most cases made it take longer
the team has released the code on github and can be used to test Linux and macOS systems
for the vulnerability and in the article I link in the show notes that github code is
linked so if you want to test your machine if you want to go all project zero here's
the row hammer test code right there on github yikes I almost want to do it but then like
you don't want to know no you do but you don't you really don't right like right you want
to do it on someone else's machine especially someone you don't like right like if it's
like a client that's like a real bear or something do it on their machine no that's okay I just
don't I just don't I don't I don't have you act like we don't have you're like oh boy
there's nothing I can do there's exactly yeah there's no way you could ever prevent anything
from avoiding that Windows Linux Mac anything that has the permissions in RAM you know even
the no execute bit those are by pages in the RAM of the computer yeah well even though
it's enabled by the CPU they're all based in the RAM so you can just flip bits no matter
what regardless for the operating system I was talking about a story on tech talk today
one forty two I think it was today and we're talking about how the CIA has had a multi
year effort underway to crack iOS devices and I was you know I was kind of thinking
about like that that is just like a pretty nasty situation where they have gotten to
the point where if they cannot crack your encryption if they cannot crap your crack
your password or whatever it is they will take an iPhone and they will watch the electrical
use and frequency of the CPU as it does encryption and from that can reverse engineer some keys
to crack the encryption and I'm thinking to myself okay if my foe is somebody who can
take my phone and put in a sensor grid and watch the electrical output of my CPU from
afar and then somehow reverse engineer the encryption from that there's not a lot I'm
going to be able to do this is nothing you can do about that and there's there's no point
in worrying about that yeah you can leak information and pretty much most ways that's why a lot
of things try to be deterministic or never allow variation in the operations that it
actually performs everything is consistent it will be impossible for at least as impossible
as designed or architected but it's very rarely that perfect software has bugs yeah and people
are buggy yes they are all right wanted to just do a follow-up something that broke kind
of between Linux action show and now that has really gotten out of control is this big
hoopla around and I started to see a brew and I like no way what's going on here during
before we for before we went on the earth Linux action show decided not to run with
the story and then it just exploded like people are all upset Google is dropping support for
every version of Linux before version 3.16 how dare Google Chrome is going to be completely
unusable on on LTS is like just all of this outrage and I was like what is going on here
well okay okay all right it turns out just mislabeling the bug has caused all of this
major confusion and outrage on forums all across the internet over the weekend you might
not even heard about this if you weren't paying too close of attention because it happened
so damn fast a few days ago it appeared that Google began requiring new versions of the
Linux kernel in order to use Chrome or Chromium now it appears Google intends to continue
to support older versions of the Linux kernel but they're hitting a buck it appeared with
modern versions of Google's Chrome and Corbyn web browsers it seems to be that there was
a dependency on version 3.17 or newer of Linux otherwise when dealing with Chrome or Chrome
extensions the user would get error messages it turns out that Google intended for there
to be didn't intend for there to be a hard requirement on version 3.17 a Chromium developer
commented on the bug and said I'm updating the title so that people who have been misled
into thinking that non TSY and C kernels were deprecated immediately understand it's simply
just to some unknown bug that are hitting some users and they're continuing to work
on it so if you read that Chrome will no longer work on your version of Ubuntu because you
have the 13 you have the 3.13 kernel or something like that or 3.16 kernel never fear Chromium
is not going away I just I couldn't believe that this is just another example of why Firefox
is awesome oh for God's sake really that's where we go with it I mean I don't mind Firefox
but for God's sake hey Wimpy are you are you awake are you still around oh yeah I'm awake
just yeah are you okay are you okay yeah are you okay yeah all right good here I have an
email that I think you are the perfect person to answer so zek the penguin right cranky
I know I know question about Matei and the pie hi guys glad to be getting in touch again
I listen to unplug this week and was wondering if anybody's tried Ubuntu Matei on the Raspberry
Pi by the way did you know there's a pie two out now holy crap I suppose this question
might be more for the mumble room but here it is I've noticed there has been no mention
of a bunch of TV for some time I've looked around what's the deal on that stay frosty
zek the penguin so I'll get to the bunch of TV thing in a sec but wimpy anything to share
on Ubuntu Matei and the Raspberry Pi okay on the Raspberry Pi you know the original versions
there'll be no Ubuntu on those models because Ubuntu don't build for arm v6 they only build
for arm v7 but if you've got a Raspberry Pi 2 then somebody in the Ubuntu Matei community
ported Ubuntu Matei 1504 to the Raspberry Pi a couple of days ago so that's available
now and I've had preliminary conversations with some of the Ubuntu devs that are responsible
for Ubuntu snappy core to get some advice as to how we might be able to make that an
official image and they've given us some really cunning advice about just creating a root
file system for arm v7 hard float and then the instructions on how you then integrate
a bootloader and a kernel for any other arm v7 platform into that root file system so
you can effectively enable that for a multitude of arm v7 devices so we're looking at that
but if you've got a Raspberry Pi 2 there's an Ubuntu Matei 1504 image available for you
now which is well ahead of the schedule as far as I'm concerned yeah I was pretty surprised
when I saw that on Google Plus yeah it's pretty great pretty great well no I tell you what
I can't take any no this and I wish I could pronounce the community members name but it's
got far too many letters that I can't string together in it so I'm just gonna say thank
you and you know who you are yeah that's pretty neat and you know what it makes a lot of sense
for the Raspberry Pi especially this new one is supposed to be much faster makes me sound
it makes it honestly it makes it sound like you could be used as a full-fledged desktop
at what have you got any reports back on the performance good enough that you can use
LibreOffice in it well I mean that's that's pretty big that's like in a browser yeah that's
really where it comes down for me yeah yeah reasonably you know then cool yes so long
as you're using HTML 5 rather than flash that all works too there's we haven't caught the
guy the guy that's looking at this hasn't quite figured out the the accelerated video
yet do I think that's just a matter of time and we're also looking at the Odroid c1 as
well ooh very nice that's pretty exciting that's pretty exciting oh Wimpy I always love
getting the updates I feel like I get the inside scoop it's great I know right so Zach
the penguin I hope that answers your question sounds like that might be an area to play
around with and oh man now you're making me want a Pi 2 so if anybody out there in the
audience ends up trying it out on a Pi 2 I'd love to hear your thoughts go over to JupiterBroadcasting.com
slash contact and tell me your thoughts or maybe you know we've all got phones with cameras
now why the hell aren't some of you taking more videos and just upload that to YouTube
and email that into the show I'd like to actually see the phone I want to see how it works how
does it function how well does it work that's what I want to know so go over to JupiterBroadcasting.com
slash contact and you'll find the Linux unplugged show in the drop down or you can submit to
LinuxActionShow.reddit.com hey before we run too far I know I've mentioned a lot I don't
mean to be obnoxious but I just really want to see you I want to meet you I want to shake
your hand at Linux Fest Northwest 2015 I know it's a long ways to go but let me tell you
the United States of America we've got like more than 20 states we do yeah like a lot
more than 20 states and you know what Matt maybe you would tend to disagree but tell
me Washington it's one of the best isn't it oh it's I've been to a few of them yeah up
and down the area I've been way up north way down south and I would say Washington is definitely
both weather wise and culture wise is just chill it's very relaxed yeah Washington Washington's
the best state out of all of them absolutely and so that's why we want you to come to Linux
Fest Northwest because one of the best places in Washington is Bellingham Washington I mean
there's Seattle and they have a Space Needle and they have sports there but you know what
they don't have the true genuine hippie culture of Washington that's up in Bellingham it's
so true too right growing up in Bellingham for a good portion of my years yes that's
actually yeah so if you really want to know what Washington's about you come to Bellingham
if you want to know what we want you to think Washington's about you go to Seattle exactly
yes now you got it now you got it so it's April 25th and 26 we're gonna try to get as
much of the crew out there as possible we really want to go big this year and so that
means you know we're gonna be flying we're gonna be flying folks out we're gonna be having
some big after parties and things like that and along to go with that we've launched a
new shirt if you go to teespring.com slash Linux we've only sold 38 we need to get to
150 even meet goal and at that we won't even be covering our Linux Fest Northwest costs
not even a little bit we would have to probably sell a lot more than that because we're selling
the t-shirt specifically near cost but if you could go over to teespring.com slash Linux
grab yourself some swag you've got that we've got the long sleeve shirt we've got the hoodie
this will support our Linux Fest Northwest efforts we've also got the ladies tee you
can go grab that over there as well as the kids tee which is look at that $13 for the
kids tee $17 for the t-shirt that's our cost so if you if you really want to make sure
we get there I'm not even joking you might want to buy two we set it low because we really
want as many folks wearing this way as possible right now the number one color seems to be
this nice blue which I'm not gonna lie it does look really good and you know what pro
tip your Chris had your Chris right here you this guy this me me I had your back when we
designed the new Linux action show logo for episode 300 we knew what was up we'd actually
gotten our crap together by that point and we decided let's make sure that this will
print well on a shirt so we've designed the Linux action show logo at for episode 300
and forward specifically to make sure that when we do swag it prints well and my friends
it does this is the only black and white run of the Linux action show logo that we have
done and we are trying to raise funds for our coverage of Linux Fest Northwest you can
get it at teespring.com slash Linux and we have only sold a meager 38 so far not even
reaching the goal and the idea is once we raise the funds then we're gonna be able to
afford things like flying out guys like rotten corpse and q5 sis and Chris Moore and Alan
Jude and Michael Dominic and like could you imagine how much it costs to fly all of those
people out and put them up in a hotel room can you imagine it's got to be like two thousand
dollars a person so there's no way Alan is great I mean we did I think that's what we
did that one year I just popped him out of a crate so there's I mean it'd be nice right
now 38 shirts is not gonna do it that's for sure that's damn sure and I even if we sold
a thousand we probably only still cover only a part of it but anything we could do could
help plus then you get some awesome swag even if you're not going to the fest you can still
get a great shirt and the logo does look good and I have found for some reason that rocket
seems to start conversations and then with you are clever you segue that conversation
into discussion about Linux and software freedom and I know that sounds like stupid but you'd
actually be surprised how often that has happened I'm not even kidding I went got my hair cut
today and I'm wearing the unfilter shirt and like somebody unfilter what's that I'm like
oh well let me tell you and it's a great opportunity to also to plug the network so anyways that's
my super long way of saying Linux fest Northwest 2015 is coming up and they've just today opened
up early registration you can go register right now and if you want to be a if you want
to register for free you can or if you want to toss in to them you get a t-shirt and at
60 bucks and it helps support the Linux fest Northwest as well it's a great we go to all
of them you know and I got to tell you it's one of the best in the US of a and if you
ever considered coming to United States Linux fest not only gonna get a great test of great
taste of one of the best states in the United States of America you'll also get exposed
to some great barbecue some great JB experiences and get a great fast at the same time that's
right man I tell you what man I made myself want to go now and I already want to go well
you know and I think two important things to realize too is one if you have a shirt
on we know we know you're with us boom and that's important the second thing is if you're
if you are coming up do the hotel thing now don't wait till don't wait till April don't
wait till few days before trust me you're gonna get a better experience if you do it
now you know really really important the thing is and this is why the shirt is so important
is last year I think there was about thirteen hundred fourteen hundred attendants to Linux
fest Northwest and I think about seven hundred of those attendants were wearing Jupiter broadcasting
swag so we got to do it again this year we cannot go down in numbers right we got to
make a sea of Linux action show and and that that there's one clear reason to do that because
the more shirts that are say Linux action show the more interviews we're gonna get come
on let's be honest no I don't know all right so anyways teespring.com slash Linux why not
I say it's a good-looking logo if I don't say so myself I'll tell you what else is great
our first actually I'm sorry our second sponsor this week and that's digital ocean and a digital
ocean is all in on Linux so when the Linux kernel developers create a code of conduct
they're probably paying attention and when core OS came onto the scene they were also
paying attention that's why they scrambled to work with the core OS project directly
so that way they could get subscribed to the development channel so that way they get official
updates directly from the project I love it they truly get it they get community they
get open source they get Linux and they understood that if they're gonna have a compelling product
it they couldn't just have a great UI that's pretty obvious if you look at their website
they've got the best in the business clearly but they also knew they needed to build it
on top of incredible technology state-of-the-art bandwidth and data centers and really let's
be honest Linux right it's Linux and KVM that makes digital ocean possible and it's that
fact that they use Linux and KVM is why I use digital ocean because I have faith in
that infrastructure I have faith in that setup and that's one of the reasons why I'm happy
using them as sort of my back-end infrastructure every time we have to spin up a Jupiter broadcasting
server it kind of took me a little while to really wrap my brain around this idea because
at first I kind of thought oh this is my VPS you know I need to go I need to go do a thing
I'll have I'll go spin up a VPS now I think of them as my server room like when when when
somebody comes to me says Chris we're gonna have to do this thing like you know dedicated
video streaming or a new type of Ruby on rails things to manage our chat room like I don't
think of anything other than digital ocean like that is my server room because it's so
easy to get started it is simple intuitive and it's very fast you can start in less than
55 seconds and pricing plans start at only five dollars a month it's gonna get your 512
megabytes of RAM a 20 gigabyte SSD one CPU and a terabyte of transfer if you're just
starting out we just did our production on Linux episode of the Linux action show if
you're just starting out your podcast just host your files on a digital ocean droplet
I wish this was available when I started okay data center locations in New York San Francisco
Singapore Amsterdam and London so you could have multiple like for like 15 bucks you could
have like essentially worldwide distribution man I love that again it was blogging too
like I wish this was available when blogging became a thing it's so nice but at that interface
it's crazy intuitive and power you just can replicate the interface with digital oceans
API and the community has already done that a bunch there's a great a ton apps just you
can go out a ton of great apps you just go out there and take advantage of like right
now in the Google Play Store for your Android device in the iOS store for your Apple but
really just all kinds like this the whole spectrum from bash applications to Ubuntu
applets to puppets plugins I mean it's the full spectrum and there's new ones being developed
all of the time why because the API is actually really good it's really good and so the development
community and there's a really passionate community the same thing you see the same
thing in digital oceans tutorials community they get passionate about it because they've
given them the tools they've given them a reasonable value and so much to work with
that's what digital oceans all about go create an account and use our promo code do unplugged
one word lowercase do unplugged just go spin up a server for free when you use the own
plug you can try it out for two months for free the five dollar week and go update the
packages seriously just go update the packages and sit back and go wow wow it's like your
computer is hooked up to the matrix it is like a direct feed to the matrix it's so damn
fast and they have one click deployments you can deploy like gitlab or docker or ghost
or wordpress ruby on rails with one click and they've been all in on docker since day
one so they have a bunch of great stuff around that they've just recently launched free BSD
supports if you want to kick the tires on that you absolutely can just use our promo
code do unplugged you get a ten dollar credit you can spin up a five dollar rig two months
for absolutely free go over to digitalocean.com do unplugged when you check out or just apply
it to your account that's how they do it it's really slick try it out digitalocean.com
and a big thanks digital ocean for sponsoring the linux unplugged show I love it I love
it all the time I love it a little bit inappropriately to be honest with you I spend entirely too
much time in my droplets I'm always coming up with something so it's really cool now
I guess Linus kind of has a reputation you know he's kind of known for being a little
tough the linux development mailing list is known for colin as it is it's been bit of
a it's been a bit of a point of discussion for the last year or so I'm not actually totally
sure why it feels like if you don't like it just don't participate yeah but it might you
know it's gotten to the point though matt where it's just not going away you know I
honestly yeah and I guess it really depends on now if there's enough people that are bothered
by it then it can become a thing but I think if it's just one or two you know it's really
kind of up in the air I for myself personally I don't see an issue yes he comes off like
a raving lunatic sometimes that's fine you can do it right back to him and it's all good
you know as long as things are you know I just don't see it as that big of a thing but
I know a lot of people are really really upset by it and you know maybe they need a code
of conduct I don't know that's something they're gonna determine so friend of the show Greg
KH submitted a patch to the Linux kernel during the Linux action show he said and here I'll
cover that in a second but the idea is to make the Linux mailing Linux kernel mailing
list maybe a bit more peaceful they've they're going to adopt a code of conduct the title
I don't know if I call it quite a code of conduct I don't think that's quite the right
title it's more like a method to resolve conflicts like for example in it they say the Linux
kernel development effort is a very personal process compared to traditional ways of developing
software your code and ideas behind it will carefully be reviewed often resulting in critique
and criticism the review will almost require will almost always require improvements to
the code before it can be included to the kernel know that this happens because everyone
involved wants to see the best possible solution for the overall success of Linux this development
process has been proven to create the most robust operating system kernel ever and we
do not want to do anything to cause the quality of submission and eventual result to ever
decrease now Matt I'm not a corporate speak master anymore but if I were to pull out my
old corporate speak to me that sounds like what they're codifying there is attitude essentially
what they're saying is this process has attitude and if you can't handle the heat get out of
the kitchen do you disagree exactly what it is they just they were lacking synergy and
focus but otherwise they nailed it yeah yeah yeah yeah okay all right and then before we
jump in too much further the new code which was made by a via a Linux kernel patch continues
if however anyone feels personally abused threatened or otherwise uncomfortable due
to this process that is not acceptable if so please contact Linux foundations technical
advisory board or the individual members and they will work to resolve the issue to the
best of their ability as a reviewer of code please strive to keep things civil and focused
on the technical issues involved we are all humans and frustrations can be high on both
sides of the process try to keep in mind the immortal words of Bill and Ted be excellent
to each other like that amazing yeah that's amazing that's that's incredible that's a
very good way of putting it I'm okay with it from the fact that I think it's important
that it doesn't come down to sexist comments or you know racial slurs and things like that
that that's not okay but I think if you're just calling someone a dumbass or it's like
pull your head out of your backside pay attention you stupid fool or what you know that's whatever
that that's not pointing toward any one group of people that's just basically hating on
anyone who did something stupid you know I don't have a problem with that all right so
the Linux foundation tuned in with their with their thoughts on it but before I go any further
wimpy or anyone in the mummer of anything jump to you is this gonna even work in the
Linux kernel team have a code of conduct well I like the fact it's called a code of conflict
I think that that's that's the best the best title for it given where it's been placed
right and yeah the Linux kernel developments kind of famous for its occasional blow-ups
and raucous attitude and is this is this now Linux kernel development growing up and getting
a little bit corporate and PC and and a little bit sensible and not quite so punk and chaotic
and anarchic like it used to be is it that or is it codifying bad behavior as a code
of conduct maybe I don't know it doesn't seem to be because there's an escalation channel
for if people are uncomfortable with how they've been treated so it feels like this is this
is sanitizing and normalizing you know Linux kernel development behavior to be more in
line with what you'd expect in traditional working environments and that's that's good
and bad it's good because it can be more inclusive and it's bad because well that a little bit
of the anarchy of Linux kernel development was maybe as maybe died a little bit maybe
maybe Linus is a little bit sad rumor is that he was he was not totally absolutely happy
with it but he is the one that committed the patch well he would he would be really wouldn't
they I mean ultimately yeah he has to he has to accept these things isn't it funny they
did this as a patch that's kind of funny right they do this as a patch that's that's that's
classic and it's kernel tree so why not yeah yeah well I would rather have a warning sign
then accidentally fall into a manhole having a warning knowing what I'm going to get into
and having it that's fair it almost offends their position that they can be assholes to
you and be ready for it yeah right like you're you're stepping into the arena even though
they're kidding or saying it up front they're almost legitimizing it well and shouldn't
it's okay though because it's good to have conflict like to have good feedback couldn't
you argue that Linux kernel development is like in the top 10 most important development
software development projects of all of humanity because so much depends on Linux that if somebody
screws something up you literally you I mean you could you could impact live through the
world yeah so like maybe it's okay that sometimes people use kind of difficult and hard words
when they're developing on one of the most important projects of our entire society's
creation I'm not saying the most maybe I don't know but I'm saying it's got to be up in like
the top 10 right like look at the entire freaking world runs on it right and so if it seems
like from time to time if you do something that makes that thing less good you probably
should be yelled at yeah yeah everyone's baby and also you know if if Linux is a reflection
of humanity through software development then it should probably reflect reflect its imperfections
as well yeah yeah exactly for better or worse and you know but I guess this is sort of saying
we're going to allow some room for that but we're going to try to keep it semi-civil and
it's have an official process when things get out get out of hand right that's kind
of what they're saying don't seem like it yeah Colonel Linux is Linus told a dev in
the mailing list that he wished that he would have retroactively abort what he didn't say
currently he doesn't finish the thought the whole patch maybe I don't know I think it
was the whole that was the whole comment but he thought he was surprised he could find
his well very good that's rather means he wanted him to die yeah I got it now all right
should we you know when canonical announced their own display server I don't know if you
guys noticed but the entire internet caught on fire at least the the lands of Linux when
when mirror was announced I believe that it was the end of times and the debate raged
and continues to rage so this week Google announced their own display server called
free on to replace x11 on Chromebooks not based on Wayland not based on mere their own
totally invented at Google solution and we're going to talk about it right after I mentioned
ting go to Linux dot ting dot com right now to go get $25 off your first device or your
service plan and man is ting rockin right now so they've rolled out the GSM to the open
better you can get your device on the ting network if it's GSM compatible they just did
a big post over on their blog that talks about all the different types of devices that work
on the ting network let me just tell you it's a lot right because I got the whole CDMA spectrum
now and the GSM spectrum just got to make sure it's the right frequencies and they have
it all laid out in a brand new blog post go over to Linux dot ting dot com to get started
then you can check on the blog to see if your device is compatible lots of great use cases
for these devices I've been hearing about some good ones Colonel Linux he's got an old
Nokia device that he uses as like the bat bone that he brought back to life it's a feature
phone it's like okay two people have this phone number if it rings I actually know that's
an important phone call chase right our buddy from how to Linux and the unfilter show his
home security system running off the ting GSM network myself I have put my my Nexus
5 on the ting GSM network holy crap holy holy holy crap I'm gonna tell you about here in
a second Nexus 5 it's so badass on the ting network because I can switch I can go I can
move back to the CDMA network if I want or the GSM network which that's that's mind-blowing
if you think about like kind of flexibility that gives you but here's the great thing
about ting I'm only paying for what I use it's a flat six dollars a month now I'm gonna
tell you real talk ladies and gentlemen that's a game changer if you're a small business
a company like Jupiter broadcasting we really can't afford to do jack but one of the things
I can afford to do is give people on our team cell phones that is huge for us as an internet
connected company that is extremely important and ting is making it possible I just checked
our ting bill for three devices and an iPhone 5 and HTC one and a Nexus 5 $55 is our bill
three smartphones hotspot and tethering are included all of the features it's just six
dollars for the line and then we pay for our usage I've got three freaking high-end smartphones
on my plan I would not be able to do this as a business if it was not for ting like
I would not have an option for this and I'm only paying $55 a month if you're a family
you can take advantage of that same savings go to linux.ting.com right now try out their
savings calculator see how much you could you could save I think you'd be pretty much
just shave it off shave it down shave it down now let me tell you about that GSM coverage
it's gonna vary you can find out your coverage information on the ting website but this morning
on my drive into work as I was streaming I was like you know what I'm doing 50 miles
per hour right now how 2015 is this what kind of bandwidth am I gonna get while I'm doing
50 miles per hour on a podunk country road it's in Marysville Washington it's called
67th and if you know what I'm talking about this is this is a this is a in the woods road
that is literally cut between farmland that's why I take it it's a beautiful drive and I'm
doing 50 miles per hour I open up the speed test app I get 18 megabits down 17 megabits
up 31 millisecond ping while I'm driving in my truck on the ting GSM service it is so
awesome and I'm only paying for what I use linux.ting.com go there and support this show
go try it out and also I'll give a quick plug to women's tech radio women's tech radio has
been giving out some ting GSM cards if you like I think episode go listen episode 16
this latest episode women's tech radio within the first few minutes they have information
you can get on the you can get in for the drawing to get a free ting GSM sim and they
have information in episode 16 of women's tech radio and the reason why I tell you that
I don't I mean they get the credit for it but the reason why I tell you that is game
changer it's so much fun when I do something like this and I and it just totally opens
up a whole new world of speed and signal and it's just it's such it's so exciting it's
such a game changer I want you to experience it to go to linux.ting.com to get started
go listen to women's tech radio episode 16 to get a free GSM sim is they have a drawing
it's not gonna take you know not much I mean there's other people listening to but you
have a shot again they're giving out two GSM cards free GSM cards per episode so you got
a good shot and that's episode 16 of women's tech radio anyways go to linux.ting.com to
get started try out the savings calculator just to get an idea of what you'd save especially
for your business and if you're thinking about buying a device specifically to run on the
ting GSM network go read their blog post about shopping for a GSM device first a lot of good
information and it's really simple and there's a lot of devices that work for ting now linux.ting.com
and a big thanks to ting for sponsoring the linux unplugged show I'll tell you I was there
yesterday and watching you play with it inside and you know it's like the speed readouts
were just like you showed it to me I'm like yeah yeah how you must be on Wi-Fi no no you're
on you know like you're on tickets like oh my god that's crazy it was really cool wasn't
it it was awesome yeah and the thing really gets crazy when I'm in full signal to it really
gets crazy all right so let's talk about Freon real quick so if you haven't heard this is
Google's effort to basically remove x11 dependencies from Chrome OS altogether Freon is not based
on Wayland or Mir Freon does away with the rest of x11 dependencies and its processes
aiming to provide better performance and reduced power consumption and a smaller Chrome OS binary
within Freon there technically is not a display server I want to repeat that technically Freon
is not a display server under Freon drivers under the Freon driver model the Chrome browser
talk the Chrome browser talks directly to the kernels DRM and KMS APIs and is also communicating
directly with open GL ES for the 3d drawing functionalities within Chrome OS 41 this functionality
is mostly for the Intel Chromebooks while the various Samsung ARM Chromebook should
receive similar treatment in later releases the initial Freon supported devices include
the Chromebook pixel the Acer c720 the Asus Chromebox the HP Chromebox the LG Chrome base
the Acer Chromebox and the Dell Chromebox the initial limitations are due to be independent
on DRM and KMS support in the hardware this is a new approach though among the benefits
of Freon is supporting hardware overlays for compositing partial screen update supports
you just update a certain area of the screen zero copy texture uploads external display
device improvements and reduced input in the late in the latency stack sounds nice why
didn't Google just use Wayland though anybody in the mumble room have any thoughts why would
Google have to go invent its own system why not just use the Wayland protocol well Google
have invented their own system before why didn't they use surface flinger yeah they've
already got all the work done before they made this they had a thing called Ozone and
they are making the Wayland and mirror abstractions built on top of Ozone and Ozone talks to KMS
and DRM through right but not to be not to be confused with the Linux distribution yes
so they already have this layer called Ozone so they've already got two implementations
which talk directly to the kernel already they're just adding one that is a little bit
less protocol your extraction yeah I mean essentially it sounds like they have it all
decoupled or decoupled already I mean this is not my area of expertise but it sounds
like on Chrome OS they've essentially been doing a lot of all of the heavy lifting inside
Chrome and then just sending the output to X to just draw it to the screen here X here's
all of the hard work now could you just as a frame buffer dump this to the screen for
me and now what they're going to do is take X11 out of that all together Chrome will talk
directly to the kernel and the kernel will then display it directly on the screen through
the current because the rendering processes all have their own compositors within the
browser already they're already within each like within the browser architecture so since
the compositor is already there in the browser all they need to do is just do a direct well
code they have to talk directly to that one Ozone layer and they get directly to the kernel
they take the whole process of a what is it method or an indirection by like Wayland or
mirror protocols yeah they're all in an indirection it'll cost so they're just trying to remove
costs and they're not actually destroying the usability of Wayland or mirror because
they already have the architecture and code in order to support all three good old Google
it's interesting to watch them really make their own Linux in a way their own Linux distribution
and you know I speak very highly of core OS and they were inspired by Chrome OS in some
ways so I have I have learned to give Chrome OS more consideration and when Google announces
they're doing something to kind of sit back and go all right what are they thinking and
why are they doing it this way like remember when they announced they were going to drop
support for like extended for or something like that oh yeah yeah that was a big yeah
and then they kind of reversed on that and and then with the earlier we talked about
in the episode the dropping support for kernels earlier than 3.16 well that just turns out
to be a proprietary software company that ends up working out in the open sometimes
doesn't title things for public consumption and gets bit by the news cycle in this case
you know the initial reactions have been why aren't you using Wayland well it turns out
we don't really need to we've already done the majority of the work it's interesting
I wonder what happens down the road and how far Google can take this well I think historically
companies like Google like control so even if it seems like it's just us you know self-centered
unneeded act a lot of times they just feel more comfortable being in the driver's seat
yeah you know yeah it's unfortunate but it's true oh Popey you managed to make it just
as we end the show yeah sorry about that yeah it's the daylight savings isn't it yep yeah
I know it is the worst thing ever that we purposely put ourselves through don't even
get me ranting again it's all right we missed you how is that how are things in Ubuntu touchland
Popey good busy busy busy yeah I saw there was a community QA today and your name was
dropped in it there's the only part I saw and their name dropping you so your internet
famous now oh yeah yeah it's all over now the one part I saw and their name dropping
him like wow that Popey everybody knows about him now it's he's big-timing us yeah all right
well I had one question for you Popey has anybody go on then as have you heard anybody
talking about somehow connecting the pebble to Ubuntu off her phone which one the old
pebble or the new pebble time well not well the times not out yet I got the pebble steal
and I just wanted to know if like I could get any if there is there any prospects of
integration I don't know it's one of those things I think you probably have to ask pebble
themselves I know we've poked them I mean publicly one of our developers tweeted at
them when their pebble time Kickstarter kicked off Chimmy poked them on Twitter and said
hey I work for Chronicle I would like to add support in Ubuntu for the pebble time so yeah
with I don't know if they replied and I don't know what conversations he's had with them
but yeah they know we exist so it would be nice but you know I've read articles about
how they dropped Windows phone support and they seem to do that in a not very friendly
way so I'm not hugely optimistic to be honest hmm all right well so I you know I want to
make up I want to make a plea again to the audience I would love to get your runs Linux
like just like take a selfie or for God's sakes or don't do that but a video or something
of your setup upload to YouTube or imager Flickr whatever you need to do I'm not gonna
judge go over to Jupiter broadcasting click the contact link choose a Linux action show
from the drop down but runs Linux in the subject line and send it I want runs Linux from the
people I want yours out there for for goodness sake you got to have a decent Linux setup
I don't care it could be your laptop I don't care what it is I just want to see it we can
say and put your IRC handle in there so we can give you a call out or Twitter handle
or your name whatever you go by maybe you're not some sort of weird internet person maybe
you just have a real name whatever whatever you go by put that in the email put a little
description of what your setup is and I'll feature it as a runs Linux videos are going
to be more likely to be featured especially shorter ones and I'd love to do that I just
especially once where you hold the phone the correct direction yeah probably yeah I just
said I mentioned it from time to time and it never really happens but one of these days
one of these days Matt I will get an epic runs Linux from the audience you just wait
you just wait hey Matt is there anywhere you want to send folks throughout the week if
they want to follow up on what Matt's up to best place to go is matthartley.com slide
down to one of the subscription options there all the stuff that I have going on is happening
you can you know follow social media I'll send an email situation it's such a good looking
modern looking website I don't even I don't even like under like I need you to you need
to make me a site it just looks good people should go there it just looks good Matt's
all fancy I've actually got a couple other ones I'll show you I think you might be all
right with them pretty conscientious but I'm still you know not like I would never say
I'm a developer but I'm comfortable you fancy Matt all right everybody join us live next
Tuesday go to jblive.tv on a Tuesday jupitabroadcasting.com slash calendar to get it for your local time
zone we'd love to have you live in that mobile rooms open you can join us in that virtual
log if you don't get the time zone messed up like poppy did see you back here next week
it is the weirdest thing you'd think when you when you have an audience of linux user
and you say hey send me your runs linux setup you'd think you'd get one or two from time
to time I mean I get a couple but then you know I have a theory yeah what is that I think
it's because of all the all the times we're on linux for the past you know a couple years
or so there have been something that's kind of awesome like a movie studio yeah like that
people like mine's not that cool no I know that's the whole point that's the whole point
is I want the people's runs linux I want the people's runs linux there's a magazine linux
voice and in the back on the back cover they have a little bit that's got a q&a with someone
and a photo of their of their workstation and they do it every month and it's quite
cool you should you know just ask people to do that you know seeing a photo of your workstation
that would be cool that's a shame I've got some something to add oh go ahead and add
away go ahead add away I'll turn off the motivational music you can add away yeah yeah
turn that turn that rubbish off what do you got what do you got at all I was trying to
get people to vote yeah well yeah yeah go and vote go and go and go and think up better
titles because apparently they're all crap they're crap and whilst you're thinking up
better titles I'll I'll have a chat with Chris on linux action action show you and Noah mentioned
they had a feedback from a user who was looking for accessibility options under linux yes
okay I can talk a little bit about this so with regards to screen readers orca is really
where it's at that's your only option and if I forget the name of the the person that
had written in but if they're not happy with orca it's quite possibly that they're not
happy with the voices that orcas using an orca isn't the actual the speaking software
it's e-speak and what they probably need to do is head over to sonar gnu linux they make
an accessible operating system that's based on manjaro uses gnome 3 and they have some
tweaks to e-speak to sort of change the cadence of the voice it still sounds a little bit
robotic but they're working with an external organization to bring some new voices to e-speak
that are a bit more natural so I would suggest anyone that is blind or visually impaired
start by heading over to sonar gnu linux and they they have an irc chat room and also a
mumble server obvious for obvious reasons and the people you need to speak to are either
kyle brouard or kendall clark or jonathan nado who's the president of the accessible
computing foundation and they're the people driving all of this and if you don't get any
any joy with sonar gnu linux i'm sure you will because they're the right people to talk
to another operating system that's highly accessible and has had the thumbs up endorsement
from the accessible computing foundation is ubuntu mate which is a fully accessible operating
system but we still have the rather crappy voices in e-speak and are waiting for the
accessible computing foundation to refine the voices and when they do that we'll integrate
them very nice thank you